   8+       1-4 25 min              RULES


                                                                TM




     The city of London has hired you to redesign
               their Underground lines!
  Optimize your interchanges, stop at as many tourist
  sites as you can and take advantage of the tunnels
  passing under the Thames, all while following the
          requirements put in place by the city.
    Which one of you will be the best metro planner?




GAME CONTENTS
z 1 pad with maps of London
z 4 different colored pencils : purple, blue, pink and green.
z 11 Station cards: 6 Street cards (blue background) and
  5 Underground cards (pink and yellow background)
z 5 Shared Objective cards
z 4 Pencil Power cards
OBJECT OF THE GAME
Score as many points as you can by
optimizing the routes of the 4 Underground
lines on your map of London.


 SETUP
} Each player takes one Map of London sheet and one
  colored pencil and places this in front of them.
  zIn a 3 player game, place the remaining pencil on
    the table between two of the players. This pencil
    will be used later in the game.
  zIn a 2 player game, place one each of the 2 remaining
    pencils to the left of both players. These pencils will
    be used later in the game.
  zFor the solo game, follow the instructions found at
    the end of these rules in the section titled Solo Mode.
} When playing your first game, it is recommended to
  leave the 5 Shared Objective cards and the 4 Pencil
  Power cards in the box. They can be added in the
  future for a more advanced game after playing several
  rounds without them.
   See Advanced Modules.
} The last player to have taken the Underground is the
  controller for the first round.



GAME OVERVIEW
The game is played over 4 rounds. In each round, all
the players draw the specific Underground line that
matches their pencil color on their
Map sheet. At the end of the
game, everyone will have
drawn their own network
of 4 Underground lines in
the city of London, one
line of each color.

2
MAP OF LONDON
Each sheet shows the city of London where you will
draw your Underground lines and a scoring zone where
you will note your points.
DISTRICTS
The city of London is split into 13 districts:
} 9 “Main” districts, each containing several Underground
  stations,
} 4 “Secondary” districts, found on the four corners of the
  city and each containing a single Underground station.
STATIONS
There are 4 kinds of station, each represented by a symbol:
         Square     Triangle     Pentagon      Circle



HOW TO PLAY
In each of the 4 rounds of the game carry out the
4 following phases in order:
     1   Identify your departure station
     2   Build your Underground line
     3   Score points for your line
     4   Get ready to build the next Underground line


 1 Identify your departure station
Look at your map of London and find where your
departure station (where your line will begin) is marked.
This station is the same color as the pencil you are using
in this round. Each player has one departure station
that is theirs for the round.
    Departure station for the player using the green pencil
    for this round.
    Departure station for the player using the blue pencil,
    for this round, and so on...

3
2 Build your Underground line
This construction phase comprises of several turns
(between 5 and 10) according to the Station cards that
are flipped over. On each turn, players can draw a line to
complete a section of their Underground line with their
colored pencil to gradually build their Underground line.
SECTIONS OF THE UNDERGROUND
An Underground line is made up of several sections
joined together. A section is a line directly joining two
stations together.
} The controller for the round shuffles
  the 11 Station cards together and
  places these face down in a pile in
  the center of the table.
} Each turn, the controller flips over the
  Station card at the top of the pile so it
  is face up. They place it in the middle of the playing area
  so that it and all previously drawn cards are visible. All the
  players then draw a section at the same time, respecting
  the Construction rules (see pages 7 and 8).
} When the controller flips over the 5th Underground
  card (pink and yellow background) it signals the end
  of this round. Players can draw one last section on
  their Underground line to link their line to a station
  with the symbol shown on this final card.

 3 Score points for your line
Each Underground line scores points based on the 3 following
features: the route it takes, how many times it crosses
under the Thames and the tourist sites it stops at.
Write the number of points you score for each feature
in your Underground line in your score zone (see pages
11 and 12).

4   Get ready to build the next Underground line
       (Skip this phase at the end of the 4th round!)
After you have added up all your points for your line,
you will change pencils.
z Pass your pencil to the player on your left, and the player
  on your right will give you their pencil.
4
 In a 2 or 3 player game, if there is unused pencil to your
  right, take it instead. The player to your right places the
  pencil they just used on the table between the two of you.
 In a solo game, simply take the next pencil in order (see
  Solo Mode).
zPlay the new round with the pencil you have just taken
 to draw a new Underground line in this color. The person
 sitting to the left of the controller for the previous round
 becomes the controller for this round.

END OF THE GAME
The game ends at the end of the fourth round when all
players have drawn their network of 4 Underground
lines in different colors.
Count up the points scored by your Underground
network as follows:
} Points for the 4 lines: add all the points scored from
   your 4 Underground lines and write this total in the last
   pink square found on the far right of your score line.
} Tourist site points: on your tourist site score track, find
   the leftmost uncrossed circle and write this number
   in the corresponding symbol on your score line.
}Interchange station points: count the points scored for
   all of your interchange stations. There are 3 types
   of Interchange stations: those connecting 2, 3 or 4
   Underground lines.
   zCount the number of interchange stations of each
     type you have across your whole network and write
     these numbers in their corresponding squares.
   zFor each type, multiply the corresponding number
     by the number of points scored for each type:
      each Interchange station connecting 2 lines
        scores 2 points,
      each Interchange station connecting 3 lines
        scores 5 points,
      each Interchange station connecting 4 lines
        scores 9 points.
   zAdd together the points scored by each type of
     Interchange station and write this total in the
     corresponding green square on your score line.
5
} :RUNRXW\RXUƓQDOVFRUH by adding together the points
  for your 4 Underground lines, the points for your
  tourist sites and the points for your Interchange
  stations. Write this total in the space found on the
  bottom right of your scoring zone.
    Example: John’s
    network passes                        John
    7 times through
    tourist sites. On his
    tourist site score
    track, the leftmost
    uncrossed circle
    shows 14 points.
    He writes this
    number in the
    matching symbol
    on his score line.
    He has nine
    Interchange stations
    connecting
    2 underground lines,
    and no Interchange
    stations connecting
                                6 4 5 5            9 18
    3 or 4 lines.
    John scores a total         3 4 5 4
    of 18 points for all         2     4 2
    his Interchange
    stations.                   20  16 29 22 87 14 18
    At the end of the                                  119
    game, John has a
    final score of 119 (87 + 14 + 18) points for his entire
    London Underground network.

The player with the highest score wins the game and is
named the best metro planner in London.
In the event of a tie, the player with the highest score
for a single Underground line is declared the winner.
If a tie persists, the players involved share the victory
for their brilliant planning!

6
CONSTRUCTION RULES
z Drawing a section is always optional. If you cannot
  or do not want to draw a section during a turn, ignore
  the Station card that has just been flipped over and
  wait for the next card.
z Each section that you draw must be a single straight line
  going horizontally, vertically or diagonally following
  the grey potential lines laid out on the map.




 The first section of an Underground line must always
  be drawn starting from the departure station and
  must be connected to a station with the same symbol
  as shown on the card flipped over by the controller.
 Each section after this must be drawn from one end
  of your Underground line and must connect to a
  station with the same symbol as shown on the card
  flipped over by the controller.
  Exception: see Special station cards - Railroad Switch.

     Example: John is playing his
    first round with the green pencil.
    His departure station is the one
    with the green Triangle.
    The Station card flipped over by
    the controller shows a Circle.
    John chooses to draw a section
    of his Underground line going
    from his departure station to
    the Circle symbol to the left.

7
z Each of your sections must always link two stations
  together without crossing through another station or
  crossing over a section that has already been drawn,
  whether for this Underground line or any other lines.




z Departure stations: as well as being the starting points
  for the different Underground lines at the beginning
  of each round, the 4 stations below are also used
  like normal stations. This means that it is possible to
  connect other Underground lines to these stations if a
  card with the corresponding symbol is flipped over.



z You cannot go back through a
  station that is already part of
  the same Underground line.
z You cannot draw more than
  one section going between
  the same two stations.




8
SPECIAL STATIONS
     Central Station: this station, found in the center
     of London, is represented by the question mark
symbol. This means that each player can draw a
section of their Underground line that links to this
station regardless of the symbol shown on the card
flipped over by the controller.
     Tourist sites: five stations in the city are located
     at tourist sites. Each site can be distinguished by
the compass points surrounding their Underground
station symbol.
Connecting one or more Underground lines to tourist
sites will score you extra points at the end of the game.
See Tourist Site Points.
Take note : the Central Station symbol is surrounded
by compass points and is one of the 5 tourist sites in
the city.
       Joker card: if this symbol appears on the card
       flipped over during a turn then each player can
       pick any station symbol they like for the new
section of their Underground.
       Railroad Switch symbol: during a turn where
       the Railroad Switch card is flipped over, the
       controller immediately flips over the next Station
card in the pile. The Railroad Switch card allows all the
players to draw their new section starting from any of
the stations already on their line.
This card allows players to create an additional branch
of their Underground line onto which players can add
future sections until the end of the round.
Special circumstance: if the Railroad Switch card is
flipped over by the controller on the first or second
turn of the round then it is ignored.



9
                  Example: the
                  controller flips
                  over the Railroad
                  Switch card and
                  then immediately
                  flips over the next
                  Station card in the
                  pile. This card shows
                  the Square symbol.
                  John could add a
new section of his Underground line
going from the circle on the bottom
of the map to either of the Square
stations just below and to the right of
this, as shown by the arrows.
However, he would rather take
advantage of the Railroad Switch. He
can use his Triangle station as an intermediate station
and draw a section linking it to the square station
found below it, as shown by the dotted line.

      Interchange stations: from the second round to
      the end of the game, it is possible to link several
     Underground lines to the same station. This is called
an Interchange station.
Each Interchange station in your rail network will score
you extra points at the end of the game depending on the
number of Underground lines connected to it.
See Interchange station Points.

               Example: during a round, John links his
               pink Underground line to the Pentagon
               station he had passed through with his
               green Underground line in a previous
               round.


10
 POINTS FOR YOUR LINE
 ROUTE TAKEN BY LINE
                   First, count how many different districts
                   your Underground line passes through.
                   Write this number in the corresponding box.
     Reminder: the city of London is split into 13 districts:
     9 main districts and 4 secondary districts.
                Find the district in which your
                Underground line passes through
                the most stations. Write the number
 of stations it passes through in that district in the
 corresponding box.
 CROSSINGS UNDER THE THAMES
               Each section of your Underground line
               that passes under the Thames scores

              6
               you 2 points.
 Count how many sections of your Underground line
 pass under the Thames, multiply this number by 2,

              3
 and write this total in the corresponding box.
 TOURIST SITE STOPS

               2
 z At the end of each round, count the number of tourist
   sites found on your Underground line.
 z For each tourist site on your line, cross off one
   circle on your tourist site score track. You will score

             20
   additional points for tourist sites at the end of the
   game: see END OF THE GAME.
                        Example: during the first round,
                        John passes through 2 tourist sites
                        with his green Underground line.
     He crosses out 2 circles on his tourist site score track.




11
 Take note: you can only cross out a maximum of 10
 circles on your tourist site score track for a maximum of
 25 points. If you would cross off more circles, you skip
 this action.

TOTAL POINTS SCORED BY YOUR UNDERGROUND LINE
To work out the total number of points scored by your line,
multiply the number of different districts crossed by this
line by the largest number of stations linked together in
one district, and then add the points scored for crossing
the Thames to this number.


                                      Example: John
                                      went through
              2             1         6 different
                                      districts with
                                      the green
                                      Underground line.
                                      On this line, the
                                      district with the
                                      most stations
                                      linked together
                                      has 3 connected
                   3                   stations. This

                                6
                                       line crosses the
      4                                Thames in one
                                       place, scoring an
                                3      extra 2 points.

                                2
                                       John scores a
              5                        total of 20 points
  6                                    (6 x 3 + 2) for his
                                20     green line.


          6
          3
12
ADVANCED MODULES
For a new challenge, you can play Next Station London
with its advanced modules. Add either Shared Objective
cards or Pencil Power cards into the mix, or even play
with both sets of cards!

Shared Objectives (5 cards)
SETUP
} Set up the game as explained in the
  original rules.
} Shuffle the 5 Shared Objective cards
  together face down and randomly draw
  2 cards from the pile. Place these 2 cards face up next
  to the pile of Station cards. Any unused cards are
  placed back in the box.

HOW TO PLAY
The 2 Shared Objective cards remain visible for the
whole game. These are two independent objectives that
each player can try to complete over the 4 rounds, and
considers their network as a whole. Each objective that
is reached by a player scores them 10 extra points at the
end of the game.

Description of each Shared Objective card:

            Draw your Underground network with at
            least 8 different Interchange stations (with
            at least 2 different Underground lines going
            through each).


  Draw your Underground network such
 that it connects to at least one station in
 all 13 districts of the city.


13
            Draw your Underground network such
            that it connects to all 5 tourist sites in
            the city.

 Draw your Underground network such that
 it connects to all 9 stations in the central
 district of the city.


            Draw your Underground network such
            that it crosses the Thames at least 6 times.


FINAL SCORING
} During the final scoring, for every Shared
  Objective that you have achieved with your
  Underground network, tick a “+10” square in
  the corresponding zone.
} Add 10 points per objective achieved to your

                                                    20
  total to get your final score.

Pencil Powers (4 cards)
SETUP
} Set up the game as explained in the
  original rules.
} Shuffle together the 4 Pencil Power
  cards face down and assign one random
  card to each pencil. Turn the cards over
  next to each pencil so they are face up.
 In a Solo, a 2 or a 3 player game, assign one Pencil
  Power card to each pencil, even those not currently
  being used. You will use each pencil and its associated
  card during the different rounds of the game.


14
HOW TO PLAY
Each Pencil Power card is linked to one single pencil color
for the entire game. Each power is helpful but can only
be used once per round. Using Pencil Powers is optional
and you do not have to use them in every round.
Once you have used your Pencil Power card, flip it face
down in front of you until the end of the round.

Description of each Pencil Power card:

During a turn, draw a second section of your
Underground line connecting to another
station with the same symbol as shown on
the card flipped over by the controller.
Special circumstance: if you use this power
after a Joker card has been flipped over, you must draw
your second section so that it connects to a station with
the same symbol as your first section drawn on this turn.


             Treat the Station card flipped over by the
             controller for this turn as if it were a Joker.


Treat the Station card flipped over by
the controller for this turn as if it were
accompanied by the Railroad Switch card.


           At any point during this round, you can circle
           one of the stations of your choice on your
           line. This station will count for two stations
           instead of one when counting the points for
           the route taken by this line, increasing the
number of stations connected to in the corresponding
district.
15
 Example: John could
 circle a station in one of
 the districts connected
 to his green line. This
 power would allow him to
 count a total of 4 stations
 connected in this district,
 instead of only 3.
 In that way, John would
 score 26 points (6 x 4 + 2) for his green line.
  Watch out, this bonus will only count for the line you
are building during this round. It will not count twice
for any future lines that pass through this station in
future rounds.


} At the end of a round, after writing down all the points
  scored by the line, each Pencil Power card remains
  with its pencil and is passed to the left during the
  4 Get ready to build the next Underground line phase.

} The game is played in the same way as in the original
  rules until the end of the fourth round.




16
SOLO MODE
You can play Next Station London by yourself in the
solo mode.
SETUP
} Place the 4 colored pencils on the playing
  area in any order in front of you.
 If you wish, you can add either Shared
  Objective or Pencil Power modules, or even
  both of them! Set up the game as explained
  above according to each module added.

HOW TO PLAY
All the rules are the same as for an ordinary game.
The order that you have placed the pencils is the order
that you will draw your corresponding Underground
lines.
Your goal is to optimize your rail network to earn as
many points as possible and win the Mayor’s approval!

FINAL SCORING
When playing with either or both of the advanced
modules, subtract 10 points from your score for each
module used before checking the achievement table.




                                blueorangegames.eu/en/games/
                                 nextstationlondon/#downloads



17
                  LAST STOP! Everybody off! You will need
     < 90         to roll up your sleeves and not sleep
                  between stations!


                  Did you take the wrong tunnel on the
91 < ... < 105    way? Try your luck again and use the
                  right railroad switch this time.


                  That’s it! Your project is taking off! Carry
106 < ... < 120   on like this and you’ll be the head of the
                  construction team!


                  Wow, you’re a real site supervisor. It’s
121 < ... < 135   great to see so many satisfied travellers!
                  You’re nearly there.


                  There’s no stopping you! The Mayor
136 < ... < 150   will definitely hire you to expand the
                  Underground network! WELL DONE!


                  You know the Underground like the back of
     > 150        your hand! You really are an underground
                  transport expert! CONGRATULATIONS!

© 2022 Blue Orange Edition. Next Station London
and Blue Orange are trademarks of Blue Orange
Edition, France. Game published and distributed
under license by Blue Orange, 97 impasse Jean
Lamour, 54700 Pont-à-Mousson, France.
www.blueorangegames.eu

18
